# Ecto Schema

Ecto is a library to help manage database schemas and interactions.

We are going to replace the structs we created last time with Ecto Schema Models. The models are still defined as:

1. Member - This will represent a member of the book club. It will need:
  * First Name - `first_name`
  * Last Name - `last_name`

2. Book - This will represent a book for the book club. It will need:
  * Title - `title`
  * Author - `author`
  * Page Count - `pages`
  * Genre - `genre`

3. Club - This will represent a book club that members can attend. It will need:
  * Name - `name`
  * Meeting Day of the Week - `meeting_day`


Ecto will create a struct automatically for you. What you need to define are the database columns called fields in Ecto. There are two main steps to this.

## Setting up the database

The first step is to create and setup the database structure. You can either do this by hand or by creating an ecto migration. The command `mix ecto.gen.migration do_the_migration` will create a new template called `do_the_migration` for example.

These are typically structured with either a single `change` function or `up` and `down` functions if you plan for rolling back any migrations. The `up` describes new changes to the database and the `down` describes how to undo those new changes.

An example migration to add a new table called `songs`:

```
def up do
  create table(:songs) do
    add(:title, :string, null: false)
    add(:artist, :string, null: false)
    add(:length, :integer, null: false)
    add(:genre, :string)
  end
end

def down do
  drop(table(:songs))
end
```

This will create a new table `songs` in the database with 4 columns `title`, `artist`, `length`, and `genre`. We defined `title` as a string that cannot be null. We defined `artist` as a `string` that cannot be null. We defined `length` as an `integer` that cannot be null. We defined `genre` as a `string` that can be null since some songs are hard to pin down to a genre.

If we wanted to rollback this migration, the `down` simply drops the table `songs`. After a rollback the database should be in the same state as before the migration was run.

## Setting up the Ecto Models

The Ecto Schema model is how ecto knows what to map the database columns to when querying. The model for the above `songs` table would look like this:

```
schema "songs" do
  field(:title, :string)
  field(:artist, :string)
  field(:length, :integer)
  field(:genre, :string)
end
```

We will also want to make a changeset so that we can create new Songs through code.

```
# 'params' in this case will be a map with the fields you want to have for your song.
def create(params) do
  %__module__{} # this just creates a basic struct based on the module name (in this case Song)
  |> cast(params, [:title, :artist, :length, :genre]) # this will throw away any map keys in `params` that don't match this list.
  |> validate_required([:title, :artist, :length]) # this will make sure that `title`, `artist`, and `length` are all set as we don't want them to be null.
end
```

From here we can simply call
```
Song.create(
  %{
    title: "Billie Jean",
    artist: "Michael Jackson",
    length: 295 # length in seconds
  }
)
```
This would give us a changeset that can be used to insert this song into the database.
