# Ecto Queries

Ecto is a library to help manage database schemas and interactions.

We've now created our three models for the book club. On this branch, relations were created between the models as follows:
Members belong to a Club and now have a `club_id` column.
A Club can have many books and a book can belong to many clubs. There is a new table called `club_books` that has a `book_id` and a `club_id` to be a join table between the two.

You can see these changes in the `lib/0006-0007/book.ex`, `lib/0006-0007/club.ex`, and `lib/0006-0007/member.ex` files.
There is also a new migration at `/priv/repo/migrations/20190530135523_add_join_table.exs` for review.

The failing tests will focus on queries with Ecto. We'll be using `Repo.all`, `Repo.one`, `Repo.insert`, `Repo.update`, and `Repo.delete`.

## Ecto Repo Functions
1. `Repo.all` - Used to get multiple rows from the database. Example: `Repo.all(from b in Book)` would get all rows matching the schema of the `Book` module. `[]` is returned if none are found.
2. `Repo.one` - Used to get a single row from the database. Example: `Repo.one(from b in Book, where: b.id == 1)` would get the row matching the schema of the `Book` module with an id of 1. `nil` is returned if none are found.
3. `Repo.insert` - Used to get create a new row in the database. Takes in a changeset. Example: `Repo.insert(Book.create(%{title ...}))` would create a new `Book` with the `create` function mentioned.
4. `Repo.update` - Used to update an existing row in the database. Takes in a changeset. Example: `Repo.update(Book.edit(book, %{title: "New Title"}))` would update the book model to have a new title.
5. `Repo.delete` - Used to delete an existing row in the database. Takes in an existing struct. Example: `Repo.delete(book)` would delete the specified `book` from the database.

